Source: https://docs.qualcomm.com/doc/80-78185-2/topic/cpu.html
Fetched with Playwright (JS SPA; plain HTTP fetch returns nothing).

Qualcomm Docs
Game Developer Guide
Introduction
GUIDES
Qualcomm® Adreno™ GPU
Qualcomm® Oryon™ CPU
Qualcomm® Kryo™ CPU
Overview
Best practices
Qualcomm® Hexagon™ DSP
COMPONENTS
TUTORIALS

Legal notice

GUIDES
Qualcomm® Kryo™ CPU
Download
Updated: Mar 03, 2026 80-78185-2 Rev: AL
Overview

Kryo CPUs are ARM-based big.LITTLE architecture. To optimize CPU utilization, we recommend looking at the Qualcomm Products and/or the Device Finder to identify the families of Kryo CPU chipsets you would like to target and which ARM Cortex CPU is it based on. For example, Qualcomm Snapdragon 865 has the Kryo 585 CPU which is based on the Cortex-A77.

ARM has family specific software optimization guides that provide details on how to optimize applications for those CPUs.

big.LITTLE Architecture

big.LITTLE architecture is composed of big cores which are optimized for performance and little cores optimized for power efficiency. Understanding this distinction and how to work with this architecture is crucial to optimizing performance and power efficiency, which translates to longer play sessions and a cooler thermal profile for the game.

For additional information on big.LITTLE architecture visit https://www.arm.com/why-arm/technologies/big-little. To understand how to take advantage of thread placement on your game, refer to Threading and Core Affinity.

Understanding CPU utilization

Measuring CPU Utilization of a game can be more nuanced than measuring GPU Utilization. Being ‘CPU bound’ does not necessarily mean the CPU is fully utilized. An important aspect of game development is understanding the threaded nature of the game and game engine.

Several games and engines are single or dual threaded by maintaining a main thread and a render thread at minimum. It is worth noting that when a game relies heavily on these threads to do all the work, the game can be bottlenecked by a single thread on a single core and become CPU bound.

On Snapdragon Profiler and an 8 core CPU platform, you might encounter a CPU Utilization metric reporting ~12.5% (100% / 8 Cores). This might not seem like the source of the bottleneck for this game – but look closer!

The following example game demo illustrates this scenario:

Using Snapdragon Profiler’s CPU Utilization Realtime metric does not seem to indicate a CPU bottleneck. Upon closer inspection, using Trace mode reveals one thread is fully utilized and almost all other cores are idle most of the time.

Threading and Core Affinity

Task scheduling on Kryo CPUs is performed at the hardware level. This scheduling can be guided by the OS through platform APIs that allow game developers to provide “hints” to the system to balance power and performance. On Snapdragon platforms, these hints are provided via the Heterogeneous Compute SDK which, among other useful APIs, provides developers the ability to control task execution and map tasks to a desired core or core type.

sched_setaffinity() from sched.h is another method of mapping threads to cores.

Often intelligently mapping threads to the appropriate cores will outperform letting Android schedule any thread on any core.

Little cores should be leveraged as much as possible. Given a frame budget of 16ms (60FPS) a developer can identify tasks using tools such as Snapdragon Profiler that would be good candidates to be moved to little cores.

For example, a game with a cloth simulation solver that takes 3ms to execute on a big core may take 10ms on a little core. As long as this execution time is acceptable (which in this case it is because our budget is 16ms), this task can and should be moved to the little cores. This both conserves power (with less drain on the battery) and leaves faster cores for more processing-intensive threads.

Another example: audio should usually be scheduled on a little core (the slowest), since such cores are usually more than fast enough for typical audio processing, particularly if that’s the only functionality the game requests of that core.

Prefer the biggest core for processing tasks that are sufficiently latency-sensitive to be too slow on the smaller cores – for example, the render thread should be scheduled on the fastest core for latency-minimization and maximizing frame pacing consistency; it’s the core least likely to be interrupted, and will process most quickly.

Power considerations

Another area to watch for is excessive or unnecessary wakeups of idle cores, which can result in more power consumption. One solution is to map tasks to the same core without overloading the core. Fortunately, runtimes for big.LITTLE platforms, such as those in Snapdragon mobile platforms, are engineered to employ three common task scheduling methods to help take care of such issues for you:

Core clustering: Cores of the same size are treated as one cluster. The most appropriate cluster is chosen based on system demands. This can be efficient if the whole cluster migrates to the big core. However, this is less optimal than the following two methods because the CPU frequency driver tells the OS kernel the required frequency and voltage

In-kernel switching or CPU migration: A big and a little core are paired into a virtual core in which only one of the two physical cores in that virtual core is used (which core depends on demand). This provides increased efficiency over core clustering, but requires that core capabilities are the same

Global task scheduling: All physical cores are available all of the time. The global task scheduler allocates tasks on a per-core basis depending on demands. This is the optimal method because the OS scheduler can allocate work on any core, all cores, or any combination, while unused cores are automatically turned off. This method does not require matching core configurations. It can react more quickly to load changes, and work can be allocated at a finer level of granularity than by the CPU frequency driver used in core clustering

Developers also have the ability to control power modes on Snapdragon platforms via the Power Optimization SDK. This SDK allows developers to adjust the power mode based on the game or task use case and performance/power demands with the following modes:

Efficient mode: Achieves close-to-best performance with power savings

Performance burst mode: Supports all cores at the maximum frequency for a short duration of time. It is useful for bursts of intensive computation to gain performance

Saver mode: Provides around half of the peak performance of the system and helps when performance requirements of the application are small

Window mode: Allows for fine tuning of performance/power balance using arguments to set the minimum and maximum frequency percentages relative to the maximum frequency that cores can use

Normal mode: Returns system to its default state

NEON Intrinsics and SIMD

Arm Neon is an advanced SIMD architecture for ARM processors. The NEON instruction set makes a bank of specialized registers available for SIMD processing.

The instruction set includes typical SIMD operations for moving data between Neon and general purpose registers, as well as data processing and type conversion. Effective use of Neon through hand-coded assembly, intrinsic functions, or automatic vectorization by the compiler can lead to tremendous performance gains for multimedia applications. Qualcomm’s SIMD/FPU co-processor is compliant with the Arm Neon instruction set.

For more information on Neon intrinsics, refer to https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/simd-isas/neon.

Interfacing with DSP and GPU

Some less-latency-sensitive processing can be offloaded to the DSP. This is generally more performant than any kind of GPU readback.

Best practices
Summary

Schedule latency-sensitive, heavy threads (like rendering) on the fastest available core

Schedule other threads (like audio) on the slowest cores that can handle them

Use NEON Intrinsics

Offload tasks to the DSP

Don’t ship a CPU-side Vulkan memory allocator

Avoid single-thread 100% CPU Utilization bottleneck

Pay close attention to the threaded nature of your game and task system to avoid bottlenecking a single core with a thread while most other cores are idle or under-utilized.

Tools such as Snapdragon Profiler can help identify problematic areas using the Android Trace User Markers for instrumentation, or Snapdragon Profiler Sampling mode, which can generate a flamegraph of the most utilized functions across all cores.

Avoid disk I/O or blocking operations on main/render threads

Overusing main/render threads on Android can be problematic and can lead to ‘Application Not Responding’ (ANR) errors – especially when using disk I/O or blocking operations.

For more information on ANRs in Android refer to, ANRs.

Use Neon for SIMD operations

When possible, use Neon intrinsics. If you are using a third party game engine or middleware, check for Neon optimizations and enable them when possible.

Use big cores for compute intensive tasks

When a task requires a large amount of compute work, prefer the big cores. This can help alleviate bottlenecks on a single core and maintain a more consistent FPS.

Use little cores for power efficient tasks

Running most of the game’s logic on little cores can lead to greater power benefits and better battery life, lower temperature, and prolonged gaming sessions by users.

Multi-thread game initialization

Game loading can be memory and compute intensive, which can lead to long wait times for end-users. Using multiple threads to distribute game loading can result in decreased load time and improve user experience.

Vulkan

Minimize dynamic memory allocation – ideally all memory requests from Android happen once at startup, and then are managed by the application from that point forward. This avoids fragmentation.

Don’t ship a CPU-side Vulkan memory allocator – it will be less performant than the default allocator. (A CPU-side Vulkan allocator can still be useful during development/debugging, however).

Previous

Threading and affinity

Next

Qualcomm® Hexagon™ DSP

May contain U.S. and international export controlled information
On this page
Overview
big.LITTLE Architecture
Understanding CPU utilization
Threading and Core Affinity
Power considerations
NEON Intrinsics and SIMD
Interfacing with DSP and GPU
Best practices
Summary
Avoid single-thread 100% CPU Utilization bottleneck
Avoid disk I/O or blocking operations on main/render threads
Use Neon for SIMD operations
Use big cores for compute intensive tasks
Use little cores for power efficient tasks
Multi-thread game initialization
Vulkan
Light
Dark
Auto
Qualcomm relentlessly innovates to deliver intelligent computing everywhere, helping the world tackle some of its most important challenges. Our leading-edge AI, high performance, low-power computing, and unrivaled connectivity deliver proven solutions that transform major industries. At Qualcomm, we are engineering human progress.
Quick links
Products
Support
Partners
Contact us
Developer
Company info
About us
Careers
Investors
News & media
Our businesses
Email Subscriptions
Stay connected

Get the latest Qualcomm and industry information delivered to your inbox.

Subscribe
Manage your subscription
Terms of Use
Privacy
Cookie Policy
Accessibility Statement
Responsible AI Policy
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Language: English (US)
Languages
English ( United States )
简体中文 ( China )

© Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies.

Snapdragon and Qualcomm branded products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries. Qualcomm patented technologies are licensed by Qualcomm Incorporated.

Note: Certain services and materials may require you to accept additional terms and conditions before accessing or using those items.

References to "Qualcomm" may mean Qualcomm Incorporated, or subsidiaries or business units within the Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable.

Qualcomm Incorporated includes our licensing business, QTL, and the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated, operates, along with its subsidiaries, substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, and substantially all of our products and services businesses, including our QCT semiconductor business.

Materials that are as of a specific date, including but not limited to press releases, presentations, blog posts and webcasts, may have been superseded by subsequent events or disclosures.

Nothing in these materials is an offer to sell or license any of the services or materials referenced herein.

This website processes personal data through our and third parties’ online tracking technologies, including analytics and advertising cookies. To learn more about how we and our affiliates within the Qualcomm Group may use your personal data and cookies, please review the Privacy Policy published at the bottom of this website and Qualcomm’s Cookie Policy. If you don’t want to share your website activities, including browsing behavior, with our third-party partners via these tracking technologies, click on “Cookie Settings" below to update your preferences. You can also update your cookie preferences at any time by clicking the Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information link at the bottom of this website.
Cookie Settings
I Understand